hi I'm Steve and today we're going to
demonstrate how to roast coffee at home
I have here a roaster it's a commercial
roaster called the fresh roast plus
eight roaster and it works via what they
call the fluid bed concept which is we
have here is a cylinder and we're going
to fire hot air up through the cylinder
and beans are sitting in that cylinder
I'll put them in there right now so
those beans in the cylinder and they're
going to tumble in the hot air and as
they tumble in the hot air they will all
roast pretty evenly and pretty quickly
and in the end of it about five or six
minutes we're going to have fresh coffee
this contraption has a catch at the top
for chaff these are these coffee beans
they had a little bit of a skin on them
that as they heat up they're going to
discard that skin and this contraption
is just a screened box to catch that
heated chat
we could be turn
so right here the beans are just
beginning to roast and they're being
bubbling under the air that's pressing
through and you can feel a little hot
air coming out the top
at this point you can just begin to hear
the first crack
sounds like popcorn popping
at this point the crackle is beginning
to take on a different character the
first boom sounded really thick and
hearty and strong and these are more
like a crackle and there's actually a
distinction one is called the first
crack in the others called the second
time
at this point the beans are getting done
so I'm going to pull them off and pull
them quickly here that second track is
full roar you see that smoke turn on the
vent fan to get rid of it
and I shake the beans directly under the
vent for a second let them cool off
and then sit him there on the stove just
a little bit of mess to clean out little
chaff but you just can't touch that
fresh coffee fresh coffee
so there's our fresh beans that's what
they look like tomorrow or the next day
they will become a wonderful wonderful
pot of coffee